what's up everybody Brendon hovered here
you are watching 100 days of SEO traffic
my name is Renan huffard I have
radically changed my life with SEO today
in this video we're gonna talk about how
to grow your YouTube channel I am
literally hopping on the train we're
going downtown we're gonna jump in my
computer where I am going to show you
not traffic I'm gonna show you my three
best tips for growing a YouTube channel
the actual strategy I'm using to grow
mine I'm gonna do a couple case studies
of how others have used that three-step
strategy as well as my best hacks tips
and tricks for more views and more
subscribers so let's get into it did you
know that the most important part of
your channel is not how good you're
making your videos I know it sounds
crazy because we're so used to hearing
about filming and editing and well
that's kind of important I want to share
with you three secrets today that are
gonna revolutionize the way you look at
growing your YouTube channel forever if
you want access to bonus resources to
this episode and others of the 100 days
of SEO simply go to 100 days of seo.com
slash join I'm Brendan Hufford and I'm
the founder of SEO for the rest of us an
SEO expert who has helped literally
thousands of people around the world get
more clients leads and customers from
their website today's video is sponsored
by 8 reps who I will mention later they
have a fantastic tool to help you grow
your YouTube channel so is this where
you're at today
Peter McKinnon has a great quote he said
I started YouTube because it was a way
and a means to start working for myself
the ability to grow a channel over time
depends on getting initial attention
delivering quality content and building
relationships with viewers so they show
up again and again to watch what you
create so I'm going to share with you
three secrets about attention content
and relationships that you can use today
to not only skyrocket your subscribers
but also your sales and then we first
have to ground ourselves in
understanding why you want to grow your
YouTube channel like seriously why do
you want to do it do you want to be a
vlogger you're trying to be cacey nice
tat or Peter McKinnon you trying to be
YouTube famous I don't think that any of
those are good reasons to grow your
YouTube channel you should be growing
your YouTube channel because it's
something you can't not do it's because
there's something you
want to see exist in the world and you
want to make it and I know what you're
thinking right isn't attention content
in relationships isn't that just really
obvious Brendan but again I'm gonna show
you a great way you can do all three of
those on your channel to get amazing
results so the first secret is you have
to find a way to get new people into
your ecosystem and get discovered by a
new audience every single day the big
idea here is you need to create content
that gives YouTube a reason to promote
your videos based on what people are
searching for this is important because
all of the most successful channels on
YouTube have grown their audience by
creating evergreen tutorial content that
is both highly shareable and makes
people want to click let's take a look
at Peter MacKinnon's channel for example
he's one of my favorite people on
YouTube and I think he gives us a great
exemplar of this if you look at back
where Peter started it was all vlogs his
first couple videos were vlogs and while
they've gotten a ton of views over time
as his channel has grown and grown
initially they didn't get any traction
and then Peter hit on an instructional
video a thumbnail that would get really
high clicks and something that was more
tutorial base
it was also since starting his YouTube
channel his shortest video yet and Peter
smart so he took what he learned from
this and he applied it again and again
and again and now most of his successful
videos are in this format all the Peters
most successful videos are his non vlog
videos they're his tutorial videos these
bring new people into his ecosystem
every single day the second secret is
that you have to create content around a
central theme and build your channels
topical Authority the main thing to
understand here is that if you get
people confused about what your channel
is about they will start to ignore you
simply put when you know exactly what
kind of tempo and content you're gonna
get with a channel click-through rate
and watch time two of the largest
factors and ranking goes way up
additionally so do subscriptions and
eventually leads customers and clients
the third secret is you do not turn
viewers into customers with dull
instruction or with vlogging you can
catch people's attention with our first
two secrets but you keep it by being
personable and relatable this is key
because you do not earn customers with
vlogs it seems cool but it sucks as a
business model in addition to consistent
content adding in relatable intros and
outros turns a subscriber into a
customer people want to do business with
people they like
so be personal especially before
tutorials like you saw in this video
here the reason I'm doing this is
because most SEO instructional video
channels have the personality of a wet
blanket you know who I'm talking about
if you've ever looked up anything
related to SEO on YouTube so I wanted to
change that with mine a great case study
in this is Louie from fun for Louie
Louie is the vlog father to me some
people say it's shaycarl I think it's
Louie Louie has been vlogging forever
daily vlogs since forever
but if you look here are Louie's most
popular videos his most popular videos
are montages of all of his cool
adventures and believe it or not
instructional and tutorial videos now
let's compare somebody who does a lot of
tutorials with somebody who does none in
the last 30 days Louie has gotten nine
hundred and thirty one thousand views
compared to Peter McKinnon who has 15
point five million views in the last
thirty days I think there's a stark
contrast there also let's take a look at
subscribers peter hasn't earned a ton
more subscribers in total than louis but
let's take a look at their videos in
order to reach two million subscribers
would you rather make almost two
thousand videos like Louie has or would
you rather make three hundred like Peter
and I know what you're thinking it's
obvious these are things we all know we
need to do so there has to be some other
secret right well the tricky things that
most people don't spend enough time
planning out their content ahead of time
because it's freaking hard it's
difficult in fact it's so difficult that
most people just turn a camera on and
wing it and you can tell when you're
watching one of those videos so I've
developed this list of 10 YouTube growth
hacks you can implement straightaway and
instantly see more views and subscribers
with your next video these ideas are
based on some of my most successful
videos but also successful YouTube
channels such as Peter McKinnon and
Atrus its like hiring the smartest SEO
team of all time and an immensely
popular filmmaker to create your videos
for you but you can do it for free
with these 10 hacks so what this is
going to do is make it so you can just
run through this checklist as you plan
out each video and bam
more views more watch time more
subscribers and one of the things that
drive actual business results for you
before we dive into number one you can
do this just
it's what I do here is go find YouTube
channels that grow quickly and I break
down the patterns that are proven to
work then I pull in those patterns I
tear them apart to see what actually
works and then I combined them into this
checklist that makes it so you can just
run through the list and have a strong
strategy to grow your YouTube channel no
experience required YouTube growth hack
number one you have to have awesome
thumbnails thumbnails are very much a
key piece of the battle for cliques in
search results your subject matter has
to be clearly displayed not a randomly
generated frame in the middle of your
video you want to make sure you convey
the emotion of the video my best hack
for this is simply to look at what's
ranking right now what are the top
results for the topic that you're making
a video about and then I model mine
after those a perfect parallel for
thumbnails is number two which is titles
I use YouTube's autocomplete href and
two buddy to break down each one number
three is the quick intro the super fast
intro now philip defranco is the og
master at this beautiful bastards hope
you having a fantastic Thursday welcome
back to the philip defranco show and
let's just jump into if you want a
marketing specific example Ryan Stewart
and Alex Becker are also great examples
but you also get really great
entrepreneur tips from a guy that's
found a few multi-million dollar
businesses that have fantastic logos
okay so if you like this kind of stuff
release new videos at 8 a.m. you should
subscribe but here's what you came for
here is exactly how I do this in the
first fifteen seconds I create an open
loop of what they'll see later that will
keep them watching quick bit about me
what I've done and how it relates to
that specific video and then I'll add
another open loop which is growth hack
number four tell them what they'll see
in every chance you get tell them how
it's related to what's coming up for
example we're only on number four right
now of the top ten YouTube's growth
hacks and I think number nine is easily
the best number five is we want a hack
watch time there's no firm statement
from YouTube what your target for highly
relevant videos should be but I believe
it's to get 50% of your viewers to get
to the 75% mark of your video so if we
get away from percentages and just look
at hard numbers if you have a 10 minute
video that gets a thousand views in
order to be considered high-value in you
two
view and you know where they promote it
to everybody else you'll need to get 500
of those thousand to get at least to the
seven and a half minute mark YouTube
growth hack number six is to create
desirable content you're like Brendan I
don't know what to make the way I do
this is I check ten channels like mine
and I sort each of them for their most
popular videos I write down the top ten
most popular videos for each Channel and
I now have 100 ideas for my next 100
videos successful content and YouTube
needs to have two elements and ideally
both an inspirational element and/or an
aspirational element regardless of
whether your content is how-to on
gardening or a personal life vlog which
I've told you is not the best idea but
people still do it or even showcasing a
local business's products it needs to
hit one or both of those number seven
maybe tags we should put that in there I
don't know it's like keyword stuffing
nobody does it in Google SEO anymore and
you shouldn't try to keyword stuff in
your tags anymore
YouTube has such better ways of
collecting data on relevancy one of
which is playlists now I know I said
number 9 was the best but I think number
8 here is really strong too playlists
are one of the areas that YouTube
religiously under promotes what I can
tell you from experience they're an area
right for giving yourself an unfair
advantage playlists are winners for two
reasons number one you can link to them
from cards in your videos will get to
those necks but also from social media
and number two they provide a guided
experience for viewers if you have a lot
of content you have more than 50 videos
you have to be creating playlists so I
know this guided experience then
provides you a crap ton more watch time
because guess who's video is gonna be
next in the playlist yours not some
other creator not because they've
watched a million Casey Neistat videos
that Casey's pops up next because
YouTube wants to keep them on the
platform if they're in your playlist
they will stay on your videos there's
also an added bonus from YouTube search
the fact that the title and description
of a playlist is index and does appear
in first page results for searched terms
number nine closed captioning I told you
this was the good one lose captioning
has been a hotbed of debate for a long
long time the creator community because
it's hard and no one had YouTube's
confirmation that they actually indexed
the data but a couple years back the
guys at reel SEO did a study and they
found that videos that had closed
captions didn't improve search rank
rizzo
for items like the title or the
description but they rather improve the
search results for items spoken about in
the video that were not in the title in
the description
so while closed captioning may have zero
value for your intended keyword it may
have splash effects for all of the other
keywords and all the other topics you
mentioned in your video also shocking
fact 80% of the people who use the
closed captions on YouTube do not have a
hearing disability think about it when
was the last time you instead of turning
the sound on just watch the captions on
a video but they're typically in an
environment that for some reason does
not allow them to listen to the audio
again another perfect example of this is
Peter McKinnon with the exception of a
video that he just published a week ago
that I don't think he intended to go
viral all of his most popular videos are
you guessed it closed captioned wrapping
up here Oh might have a might have a
bonus one for we'll get back to that
hold on we got a bonus one in here to
them super freaking pumped about number
10 is descriptions I almost always tell
people to try to keep folks on YouTube
and drive them to more videos ads are
super cheap on YouTube so if you want to
grow an audience keep people on your
channels content try to keep your links
in your description on YouTube number 11
I promise you that bonus because I
freaking love your face number 11 is
card lovingly known as the eye in the
sky this is a little ninja trick that
folks don't really use cards provide a
link to another video of yours hoon
approved merch store or a website or
further interaction with your audience
this is where I think ARDS our goal in
fact you'll probably see a card pop-up
right now asking you if you're gonna use
cards in your videos you should click
yes because if people are willing to
click on a card to vote in a poll you
can then ask them a follow-up question
or to leave a comment as well and if
you're on your game and you respond to
that comment with your own comment well
now you've got at least three
interactions on the video and that's a
strong signaling to the algorithm it
doesn't matter if it was your mom or her
neighbor or your college roommate that
clicked on the little card and then
replied and you replied to them all that
matters is that you're showing the
algorithm that you have interaction now
I'm always here to help and I can't tell
you all the amazing results that we've
gotten for other creative entrepreneurs
who are struggling with growing their
YouTube channel we also have an
incredible short interview with YouTube
SEO experts Sam oh of HRF in a quick
two-minute video both on why you should
start your YouTube channel and why not
plus a superfan
master class on YouTube SEO both of
which are linked in the description
below if you want to learn more about
Google and YouTube SEO go to 100 days of
seo.com slash join I've been Brendan
Huffer don't forget to work hard be nice
people and don't get too lost trying to
create something on YouTube that matters
[Music]